SiFive feedback (#29)
riscv-non-isa/riscv-security-model: specification/src/chapter2.adoc

[title= "Generic security reference model"]
image::img_ch2_reference-model.png[]

> The figure above outlines a generic security reference model. This specification is oriented around this reference
> model. The model is not tied to any particular implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The figure above outlines a generic security reference model and taxonomy. This specification 
is oriented around this reference model. The model is not tied to any particular implementation.
```

> Most systems are built with multiple software components each managing _assets_ that need to be protected. These components
> are often sourced from multiple different supply chains. The security reference model uses the generic term _domain_ to identify a logically isolated region, with at least some private resources and execution state not accessible to at least some other domain(s). The figure above
> uses two domains for illustrative purposes but some use-cases can require more. This specification does not imply or limit the number of domains or the type of use cases a RISC-V system could support. See xref:chapter4.adoc[Use case examples] for more comprehensive and specific examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most systems are built with multiple software components each managing _assets_
that need to be protected. These components are often sourced from multiple
different supply chains. The security reference model uses the generic term
_domain_ to identify a logically isolated region, with at least some private 
resources and execution state not accessible to at least some other domain(s).
The figure above uses two domains for illustrative purposes but some
use-cases can require more. This specification does not imply or limit the number
of domains or the type of use cases a RISC-V system could support. See
xref:chapter4.adoc[Use case examples] for more comprehensive and specific examples.
```

==== Trusted Computing Base (TCB)

> The _Trusted Computing Base (TCB)_ of any system function is the minimum amount of
> software and hardware that is critical to the security of that function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _Trusted Computing Base (TCB)_ of any system function is the totality of
protection mechanisms within a computer system, including hardware,
firmware, and software - the combination responsible for enforcing a security
policy.
```

Reviewer: using NIST definition

==== Root of trust

> A _root of trust (RoT)_ is the foundation on which all secure operations of a system depend. An RoT is typically a combination of a minimal amount of hardware and software that has to be implicitly trusted by all system components.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _root of trust (RoT)_ is the foundation on which all secure operations of a system depend. A RoT is typically a combination of a minimal amount of hardware and software that has to be implicitly trusted by all system components.

```

|===

> An example of a complex system is one with multiple, out-of-order, cache coherent Harts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a complex system is one with multiple, out-of-order, cache-coherent harts.
```

> An example of a simpler system is one with a single, in-order, Hart such as in a microcontroller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a simpler system is one with a single, in-order, hart such as in a microcontroller.
```

==== Platform quality of service

More complex systems, such as server platforms, can provide _platform quality of service (QoS)_ features beyond the capabilities of basic event counters. Platform QoS features include any Hart and system hardware and firmware aimed at managing access to
shared physical resources across workloads while minimizing contention.

For example:

* Memory bandwidth management
* Cache allocation policies across workloads, including workload prioritization
* Hart allocation policies across workloads

> These types of features rely on monitoring the resource utilization of workloads,
> similar to event counters and on the optimization of resource allocation policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These types of features rely on monitoring the resource utilization of workloads,
similar to event counters, and on the optimization of resource allocation policies.
```

example: direct access to the victim's memory or execution state, or direct
control of the victim's control flow.

* Indirect +
An adversary can use a side channel to access or modify the content of a resource owned by the victim.
For example: by analyzing timing patterns of an operation by a victim to reveal
information about data used in that operation, or launching row-hammer style
memory attacks to affect the contents of memory owned by the victim.

* Chained +
An adversary is able to chain together multiple direct and indirect attacks to
achieve a goal. For example, using a software interface exploit to affect the call
stack such that control flow is redirected to the adversary's code.

This specification is primarily concerned with ISA level mitigations against
logical attacks.

Physical or remote attacks in general need to be addressed at system, protocol
or governance level, and can require additional non-ISA mitigations. However,
some ISA level mitigations can also help provide some mitigation against
physical or remote attacks and this is indicated in the tables below.

The required level of protection can vary depending on use case. For example, a

> HW RoT can have stronger requirements on physical resistance than other parts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HW RoT may have stronger requirements on physical resistance than other parts
```

Reviewer: better to use RFC 2119 terms

| System updates SHOULD be robust against update failures
|===

> Earlier versions can be carrying known vulnerabilities, or could affect the safe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Earlier versions may be carrying known vulnerabilities, or may be able to affect the safe
```
